Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to set up custom rest API endpoints for our two like actions.
One action is the ability to add alike, and the other action is the ability to remove or delete alike.
All right.
Now, before we write the OP to set up those custom rest API endpoints, let's begin by writing front
end JavaScript to power our user interface.
What I mean by this is if you come to a professor page and you have already liked that current professor
in that case, let's interpret a click on the lightbox to mean that you want to delete or remove your
like for that professor.
On the other hand, if you visit a professor page that you have not already liked.
So for example, if I visit the miaows a lot, Professor Page.
Since I have not already liked this professor, let's interpret a click on the lightbox to mean that
I want to add a like.
All right, so let's go ahead and get started.
So in order to respond to click events on the lightbox, we need to set up some new JavaScript.
So over in our text editor within our theme folder, why don't we create a brand new JavaScript file
just for this feature?
So in our SIRC folder and then within the modules folder, let's set up a new file.
The name doesn't matter, but I'm going to name it like jazz.
All right.
And within this brand new file, let's say class with the name of like and remember, I like to have
three sections in my class.
So first, let's begin with the constructor.
OK, and then right below the constructor, I like to have an events method.
So events.
And then right below that, I like to include any methods that I create.
All right.
And then at the very bottom of this file, even below the closing curly bracket for the class, let's
say export default and then the name of the class, this will make it so we can import this file within
our main JavaScript file and just so we can test and make sure that things are working within our constructor
function.
Why don't we create an alert pop up that says testing from like J.
Yes.
OK, now let's go ahead and save this file and then jump into our main script file.
So just sitting in the root of our Sarsae folder, there's a file named index.
Jess, let's jump into that.
OK, first, let's go ahead and import that new file that we just created.
So in this area, I will say import like from.
And then just point towards that file, so look within the modules folder for like you don't need to
include the DOT JSC here again with that imported, let's create a new instance using that class.
So down here I'll say a variable and I will name it lowercase like so it's different from this variable
name.
So it's equal a new instance of the like class.
OK, now with this in place, if we go ahead and save this file.
Perfect, we see that alert message saying test from like jazz, so everything's working as expected.
Let's go ahead and actually build out this class.
So first, I know that I'm going to want to use Jake query within my class.
So up at the very, very top of this file, let's say import dollar sign from quotes, Jake query.
Cool.
So that gives us access to use the query library.
Now let's go ahead and set up a click event.
Right.
So when you click on the like box, we want to do something in response.
So within our event's method, let's say gee query to select the element that has a class of like box
and then let's say on and within the on parentheses, let's say we are looking for the click event,
comma, and then the next argument is what function we want to run in response.
So you could imagine that maybe down here in our methods area we could create a brand new method.
We could name it whatever we want, but why don't we call it our click despatcher parentheses, curly
brackets?
OK, and then on this line for the second argument, we just point towards this dot our click despatcher.
And while we're at it, why don't we also say dot bind this?
So that way within this method, we have an easy way of pointing towards our overall class or object.
All right.
Now, the only thing that this method our click dispatcher needs to be responsible for is determining
whether we should send out a request to add a like or delete alike.
Right.
Depending on whether they've already liked the current professor or not.
So let me show you what I mean back in our code right below this hour.
Click Despatcher Method.
Why don't we create other methods?
First one can be named create like parentheses, curly brackets, and then right below that we can create
another method named delete, like parentheses, curly brackets.
OK, so the entire point of this method is just to decide whether it should fire off this or this.
So within our hour, click despatcher.
Let's set up an if statement if parentheses curly brackets.
And the question is what should our condition be?
Well, when it comes to the lightbox, if I write, click and choose, inspect, remember that in our
previous lesson we set up the data attribute named data exists and then it either equals yes or no,
depending on whether the current user has already liked the current professor.
So within our IF statement, let's say if and select the element that has a class of lightbox and say
if it has a data attribute that is named exists and if that value equals yes, then that means the current
user has already liked the current professor.
So then we should interpret a click to mean they want to remove their like so within the curly brackets
for the if statement.
Let's say this dot delete line.
Right.
We want to go ahead and call that method OK.
And then right after the closing curly bracket for the if statement, let's say else otherwise new set
of curly brackets.
If this is not the case, if this evaluates to false, that means the current user has not already like
the current professor.
So they probably want to create a light.
So this dot create like, OK, now before we actually build out the create and delete like methods and
include the code that sends off and Ajax request, why don't we first just add test alert messages so
we then create like we can say, alert, create test message and for delete like we can say alert.
Delete text message.
OK, now, before we save this, let's be sure to scroll all the way up and within our constructor function,
we can get rid of this test alert and in its place, let's be sure to call this DOT events.
So that way our event listeners get added as soon as the page loads.
OK, let's go ahead and say this and then back on the front end, let's test it out.
So on this page, I have not liked this professor yet.
So if I click this cool we see create test message, which makes sense, I would want to create a new
like.
But if I go to Professor Bahts a lot, which I have already liked.
In this case, if I click the button.
Cool, we see delete text message, so this means we are firing the right methods at the right time
and this will allow users to click this button to toggle whatever their current status for the current
professor is.
Now, even though this JavaScript that we just wrote technically works whenever possible, I like to
set up my JavaScript to be flexible enough that it would work even if we had multiple, like, boxes
and multiple professors on a single page.
So what I'm referring to is within our hour click despatcher when it comes to the element that we're
checking to see if it has that data attribute of exists.
Yes or no.
I don't want a hard code that to point towards an element with this class.
Instead, I want it to look at the specific like box that got clicked on in case there are multiple
like boxes on the page at once.
Now, luckily, remember that our event handler passes along information on which element got clicked
on.
So within the parentheses for our despatcher, let's just say E short for event and then right above
this if line at the very beginning of this despatcher let's create a variable.
We could name it whatever we like, but I'm going to name it current like box to indicate which box
got clicked on, even though I know we only have one at the moment.
And really in this course, we're only ever going to have one lightbox on the page at a time.
But I really want to show you how to set things up in a flexible way so you could take these concepts
and really run with it and build whatever you could imagine.
Anyways, let's set this new variable to equal a query selector that looks for e dot target and then
let's say dot closest and look for a selector of lightbox.
Now, let me explain what this code is doing.
When someone clicks on the lightbox, they might not actually click on the overall gray box itself.
They might actually click on the heart icon or the little number.
So, for example, let's say they clicked on the heart icon itself.
Well, in that case, e dot target would be the eye icon element.
And the icon element is never going to contain a data attribute of exists.
So what we're saying is whatever element got clicked on find its closest ancestor, meaning parent or
grandparent element that matches this selector.
OK, so this line of code guarantees that this variable will always be pointing towards the relevant
lightbox.
So now down within this code, when we are looking for the data attribute, let's get rid of this query
selector like box and just replace it with our variable.
So current like box.
I know this might seem like a lot of extra work, but trust me, in the long run it's worth it to make
your JavaScript flexible.
So if you ever want to change your UI or HTML layout and have multiple elements on the same page, it
will just automatically work for you.
So if I save this new setup and test it out, I've already liked this professor.
So if I click the box, cool, we still see our delete test message.
And if I go back to miaows a lot, I have not like this professor, so this click should be interpreted
as a create request.
Perfect.
So at this point, we've got the basics of our front end user interface up and running.
Now, our next step is to adjust our create like and delete like methods so that they actually do something
useful.
Right.
Instead of just these pop ups.
So what we want each method to do is send out a request to the WordPress rest API, except unlike our
my notes feature, when it comes to adding and deleting likes, I don't want to use the default rest
API behaviors.
Instead, I want to set up my own completely custom rest API endpoints.
So that way we are in complete control and we can implement whatever custom logic we want.
And learning how to set up custom API endpoint URLs is exactly what we're going to cover in part two
of this lesson.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.